---
title: "The bee in the bookshelf"
tag: spiritual
display: 8
path: "/articles/bee-bookshelf"
---
This is a strange little story that led me to have a strong realisation - an epiphany, if you will - about how we live our lives. 
I was sitting on my sofa feeling some negative emotions, like imposter syndrome, perfectionism, self-judgement etc. And I was ranting into my journal and the last sentence I wrote before a giant bumble bee flew into my bookshelf and hid behind some books was, "What do I need to do??? To..." I didn't get a chance to finish the thought as I felt I had to go and help the bee which I found clinging to a book with a rainbow on it's cover. That's not really important for the story but it makes me wonder how the bee could confuse a flower with a picture of a rainbow on a book. Anyway, after a few seconds of removing all the books and trying to gently prompt this bee to fly away, careful not to scare it, it flew over towards the wide open window and just kept bashing into the closed window. Again, I gently wafted it out and eventually it made it back outside. I bet you're wondering where the epiphany is in all of this rambling. Well I went back to my journal to carry on where I left off, reading over the last sentence to remind me. "What do I need to do???" I asked myself. And I sighed and smiled, "To treat myself like I would treat a lost bee". To be gently to myself, to step back and see the open window right next to where I'm banging my head against a closed one, to be kind to myself. It felt like a revelation, a mystical experience almost. Directly afterwards I opened up a book that I removed from the shelf to free the bee called "Where Silence is Praise" by a Carthusian, and just flipped it open to a random page. I don't know what caused me to do it, but I landed on the most beautful sentiment that just seemed to fit the situation so perfectly: 

On suffering